I tried to express the emotion I felt when I first went to UdeM and passed through this underpass.

I had just arrived in Montreal on Dec 25, 2024, and you know, it was le Fete conge. I didn't know it was a holiday in Canada (I'm from Korea, and we usually have only one holiday day for Noel), so I was walking through that underpass to ask how I could pay my tuition. In Korea, if you don't pay tuition in the designated period, your admission can be cancelled, not like here. I later noticed it's different here, and my admission wouldn't be cancelled before February. Anyway, I was frustrated at the moment, worrying my admission would be cancelled. You know, I had already arrived in Montreal after 25 consecutive hours of flying.

Anyway, when I passed through this hallway, I felt kind of like I was exploring. It was honestly freakin cold outside, and the buildings here are surely different from what I've seen in Korea. And there was a bit of a vinegar smell, in a positive way.

So that's my initiative to draw this. I first tried different ways, such as using the SORTIE sign (it's quite a Quebec thing) and the Quebec flag, but it was too... well... jarring. The symbols themselves already have too many meanings. So later I chose a more abstract, stipple-like style to express that texture and the feeling of my exploration.

I used random-walk-style layers to express the texture of rocky walls, and I used a rectangle grid to show the uniformity of the ceiling, walls, and floor. It was kind of a compromise.

Later I added 3 different color layers, dark blue, yellow, and red. Each one represents Quebec/UdeM (it's kind of a contrast because my undergraduate school used red), the Sortie sign, and the smell of vinegar. Blue gets some white and a little bit of a filthy dark tone to represent white and (a little bit filthy) snow outside. I carefully chose the hue of yellow so it wouldn't look like a pee smell (to be honest, that smell was sometimes there, but it wasn't the impression I wanted in this artwork). main.png shows the result of this art.
